README.md, before:

# ECE444-F2022-Lab3

Shashwat Panwar

# Education_Pathways

This is a modified version of the previous Assignment1 template.

The deploye version can be found at https://lab3-docker.herokuapp.com.

## Changes
+ Removed hardcodes of backend urls.
+ Removed hardcodes of database, and replace the database with dummy static data.


## How to run it locally

+ Enter the repo directory
+ Create a virtual environment if you haven't done this before. Activate it. 
```powershell
# Windows
py -3 -m venv venv
venv\Scripts\activate

# For Mac and Linux, please check the link: https://flask.palletsprojects.com/en/2.2.x/installation/
```
+ Install dependencies (if you haven't done this before).
```powershell
pip install -r requirements.txt
```
+ Enter the `Education_Pathways/` directory, run the backend
```powershell
flask --app index --debug run
```
+ Enter the `Education_Pathways/frontend/` directory
+ Make sure the `baseURL` is set as `localhost:5000`
```javascript
# Education_Pathways/frontend/src/api.js
export default axios.create({
   baseURL: "http://localhost:5000/"
});
```
+ Make sure the proxy link in package.json is set as "http://localhost:5000/"
```json
// Part of Education_Pathways\frontend\package.json
"private": true,
"proxy": "http://localhost:5000/",
```

+ Build and run the frontend:
```powershell
npm run build
npm start
```
+ Then you will see the application at `localhost:3000`


## Build and run with Docker

For detailed instructions on Docker, please refer to the documents for Lab3 on Quercus.

+ Change the proxy link in package. Remember to change it back to "http://localhost:5000/"
```json
// Part of Education_Pathways/frontend/package.json
"private": true,
"proxy": "http://host.docker.internal:5000/",
```

```powershell
# Under the root directory
docker compose up --build
```

## How to deploy (not required for lab3)

Please make sure everything works well before you run it with docker.

+ Make sure the baseURL is set as [URL to your deployed project]
```javascript
// Education_Pathways/frontend/src/api.js
export default axios.create({
   baseURL: "[URL to your deployed project]" -- baseURL for deployment
});
```
+ Re-build the frontend to update the baseURL
```powershell
# Under the frontend/ directory
npm run build
```
+ Deploy your changes to heroku
```powershell
git push heroku main
```
>>>>>>> b27eb9c45c4749e266bafdb6cff7ff2ebc70ab9b

Commit message:

add link to main branch in lab3 README

README.md, after:

# ECE444-F2022-Lab3

Shashwat Panwar

(The lab3 branch is currently the default, view lab1 [here](https://github.com/shashPanwar/ECE444-F2022-Lab1/tree/main) 

# Education_Pathways

This is a modified version of the previous Assignment1 template.

The deploye version can be found at https://lab3-docker.herokuapp.com.

## Changes
+ Removed hardcodes of backend urls.
+ Removed hardcodes of database, and replace the database with dummy static data.


## How to run it locally

+ Enter the repo directory
+ Create a virtual environment if you haven't done this before. Activate it. 
```powershell
# Windows
py -3 -m venv venv
venv\Scripts\activate

# For Mac and Linux, please check the link: https://flask.palletsprojects.com/en/2.2.x/installation/
```
+ Install dependencies (if you haven't done this before).
```powershell
pip install -r requirements.txt
```
+ Enter the `Education_Pathways/` directory, run the backend
```powershell
flask --app index --debug run
```
+ Enter the `Education_Pathways/frontend/` directory
+ Make sure the `baseURL` is set as `localhost:5000`
```javascript
# Education_Pathways/frontend/src/api.js
export default axios.create({
   baseURL: "http://localhost:5000/"
});
```
+ Make sure the proxy link in package.json is set as "http://localhost:5000/"
```json
// Part of Education_Pathways\frontend\package.json
"private": true,
"proxy": "http://localhost:5000/",
```

+ Build and run the frontend:
```powershell
npm run build
npm start
```
+ Then you will see the application at `localhost:3000`


## Build and run with Docker

For detailed instructions on Docker, please refer to the documents for Lab3 on Quercus.

+ Change the proxy link in package. Remember to change it back to "http://localhost:5000/"
```json
// Part of Education_Pathways/frontend/package.json
"private": true,
"proxy": "http://host.docker.internal:5000/",
```

```powershell
# Under the root directory
docker compose up --build
```

## How to deploy (not required for lab3)

Please make sure everything works well before you run it with docker.

+ Make sure the baseURL is set as [URL to your deployed project]
```javascript
// Education_Pathways/frontend/src/api.js
export default axios.create({
   baseURL: "[URL to your deployed project]" -- baseURL for deployment
});
```
+ Re-build the frontend to update the baseURL
```powershell
# Under the frontend/ directory
npm run build
```
+ Deploy your changes to heroku
```powershell
git push heroku main
```
>>>>>>> b27eb9c45c4749e266bafdb6cff7ff2ebc70ab9b
